docs/tutorial_developers.rst, before:

Tutorial for WC modeling software developers
============================================

Configuring files not to statically analyze
-------------------------------------------
The ``static_analyses.ignore_files`` key of ``/path/to/repo/.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should represent a list of glob patterns not to statically analyze. E.g.::
    
    static_analyses:
      ignore_files:
          - karr_lab_build_utils/templates/*


Configuring tests of downstream dependencies
--------------------------------------------

The ``downstream_dependencies`` key of ``/path/to/repo/.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should represent a list of the names of the downstream dependencies of your package. For example, if your package is used by ``wc_lang`` and ``wc_sim``, ``.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should contain::

    downstream_dependencies:
      - wc_lang
      - wc_sim


Configuring build email notifications
-------------------------------------

The ``email_notifications`` key of ``/path/to/repo/.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should represent a list of email addresses to receive notifications of the build status of your package. E.g.::
    
    email_notifications:
      - jonrkarr@gmail.com


Configuring packages
---------------------------

The ``karr_lab_config`` repository should contain all of the configuration (.cfg) files needed to run your tests. This should include all usernames, passwords, and tokens needed to run your tests.

Commit message:

adding support for config files for third party packages

docs/tutorial_developers.rst, after:

Tutorial for WC modeling software developers
============================================

Configuring files not to statically analyze
-------------------------------------------
The ``static_analyses.ignore_files`` key of ``/path/to/repo/.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should represent a list of glob patterns not to statically analyze. E.g.::
    
    static_analyses:
      ignore_files:
          - karr_lab_build_utils/templates/*


Configuring tests of downstream dependencies
--------------------------------------------

The ``downstream_dependencies`` key of ``/path/to/repo/.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should represent a list of the names of the downstream dependencies of your package. For example, if your package is used by ``wc_lang`` and ``wc_sim``, ``.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should contain::

    downstream_dependencies:
      - wc_lang
      - wc_sim


Configuring build email notifications
-------------------------------------

The ``email_notifications`` key of ``/path/to/repo/.karr_lab_build_utils.yml`` should represent a list of email addresses to receive notifications of the build status of your package. E.g.::
    
    email_notifications:
      - jonrkarr@gmail.com


Configuring packages
---------------------------

The ``karr_lab_config`` repository should contain all of the whole-cell modeling and third party configuration files needed to run your tests. This should include all usernames, passwords, and tokens needed to run your tests.

Configuration files for whole-cell modeling software should be saved to the top-level directory of the ``karr_lab_config`` repository with the file pattern ``<package_name>.cfg``. 

All configuration files for third-party software should be saved to the ``third_party`` subdirectory of the ``karr_lab_config`` repository. In addition, ``third_party/paths.yml`` should contain a YAML-formatted dictionary whose keys are the names of the files in the ``third_party`` subdirectory and whose values are the locations that these files should be copied to.
